# Dario's Digitalhumanities

## Short biography

Born and raised in Montreal, I always held a strong tie to my Italian roots. This personal connection with Italian culture led me to pursue a Bachelor of Arts degree in the Italian Honours program at Concordia University. My persisting passion for Italian language, literature and culture encouraged me to enroll in the Master of Arts in Italian Studies at Georgetown University. It was at Georgetown that I developed my interdisciplinary aproach to Italian Studies at the intersection of literature, politics and history. While very elaborate, the research I conducted during my Masters program and the completion of my thesis did not satisfy my acquired will to expand my research horizons and work unconventionally. This is why I chose to continue my academic path by pursuing a PhD in Italian at McGill. 

### My Research Project 

My M.A. thesis 'Ignazio Silone and Carlo Levi: The World is Still a Village' proposed a global interpretation of Silone and Levi's best known novels 'Fontamara' and 'Christ Stopped at Eboli' which take place durring the fascist period, representing the effects of the Southern Question and the misery of the contadini-cafoni. Textual evidence as well as intersecting the novels with some of Silone and Levi's political pieces demonstrated how their thought reaches beyond the Southern Question and the poverty of the peasants in their immediate literary context. I also showed how both antifascist authors believed in the creation of the United States of Europe as a means of mass liberation which was to be extended to all the oppressed people of the world. I connected the issues addressed by Silone and Levi to the main issues of our time such as: migration, the meeting/ clashing of different cultures, the integration of others and euroscepticism. This showed how exemplary Silone and Levi can be in today's quest for emancipation and the role that literature can play in pursuing these ideals. At McGill, I plan to continue developing these ideas by adding other authors to my research and elaborating on the theoretical aspects of today's so called migrant crisis and its cultural ramifications. I also hope to entail cinema and some aspects of photography in my future research as a way to continue developing my interdisciplinary approach and take full advantage of the connection between the images transmitted by literature and those by other forms of media. The ultimate goal is to continue promoting a fruitful encounter with the other and the integration of others in society for the benefit of all mankind.

# My objectives of the course

In this course I wish to familiarize with the term and practices of the digital humanities which I recognize as fundamental for the future of the intellectual world, although I have not had a chance to be properly acquainted with the discipline. I wish to continue expanding my interdisciplinary research interests and be able to use some of the knowledge I will acquire in this course both in my research and especially research presentation. In the event I will choose not to or be unable to incorporate some of the new skills I will acquire into my research, I will nonetheless fulfill my goal to continue thinking 'outside the box', being open to untraditional ways of thinking and researching.


